# NAME

compile-latex - compile TeX files as many times as needed

# SYNOPSIS

compile-latex \[_options_\] file\[.tex\]

compile-latex __\--depends__|__\--outputs__|__\--internals__ file\[.tex\]

compile-latex \[__\--makefile-prefix__ _prefix_\] __\--makefile__ _makefile_ file\[.tex\]

compile-latex __\--help__|__\--man__|__\--nroff__|__\--usage__

# OPTIONS

## SHORT OPTIONS

A few short options are provided. They can be agregated (such as
`-MI`), but only the last one may have a value.

## GENERIC OPTIONS

__\--jobname__|__\-j__ Use this jobname. Can be repeated to loop through several
jobnames. _Not persistent_.

__\--debug__ _n_ Change the verbosity level to _n_ (see
["DEBUG"](#debug)). _Not persistent_.

__\--quiet__ Same as `--debug 0`.

__\--manual__ Removes automatic mode.

__\--discover__ (default) Automatic discovery mode. Currently, finds all
bibtex-able files and add appropriate actions to deal with them. Also
adds the idx/ind index action (only if no other index option is given).

__\--load-all__|__\-l__ Load options from command line, input file and hash file(s).

__\--load-old__ Load options from command line and hash file(s).

__\--load-input__ Load options from command line and input file.

__\--load-none__|__\-L__ Load options from command line only.

## BIBTEX OPTIONS

__\--bibtex-file__ _somefile_ Marks some file to be an input for
`bibtex`. Can be given multiple times. Discovery mode will probably
spot all bibtex-able files anyway, so mostly useful in manual
mode. Persistent.

__\--bibtex-file-suffix__ _string_ Same as above, except it uses
`jobname.string`.

__\--bibtex__ Equivalent to __\--bibtex-file__ _file.aux_.

## INDEX OPTIONS

__\--index-file__ _somefile_ Marks some file to be an input for
`makeindex`. Can be given multiple times.

__\--index-file-suffix__|__\-i__ _extension_ The same as above, but for the
file _file_._extension_.

Each of the following option applies to the preceding `index-file`:

__\--index-style__ _somefile_ Corresponds to option __\-t__ of makeindex.

__\--index-output__ _somefile_ Corresponds to option __\-t__ of makeindex.

__\--index-output-suffix__|__\-o__ _extension_ The same as above, but for
the file _file_._extension_.

__\--index-options__ _string_ Corresponds to other options of makeindex,
separated by spaces, see ["QUOTING"](#quoting).

## DEPENDENCY OPTIONS

All of these options are not persistent.

__\--depends__ List local files read by compilation and not overwritten
(`.tex`, `.cls`,...)

__\--internals__ List local files both output and read by compilation
(`.aux`...)

__\--outputs__ List local files output by compilation, but not read
(`.log`...).

__\--makefile__ _file.mk_ Outputs a makefile snippet included in
_file.mk_. The sections are self-delimited and replaced if already
present (see  ["MAKEFILE"](#makefile)).

__\--make__|__\-M__ Same as `--makefile Makefile`.

__\--makefile-prefix__ Prepend a common prefix to all phony targets of the
makefile generated by the __\--makefile__ option.

__\--separator__ _string_ Use this quoted string as separator between
names instead of one space (see ["QUOTING"](#quoting)).

__\--ignore__|__\-I__ Autoignore mode. Select first CVS and use it.

__\--gitignore__ Edit `./.gitignore` to ignore output and internals files.

__\--svnignore__ Edit property `svn:ignore` to ignore output and internals files.

__\--noignore__ No ignore generation.

## HELP OPTIONS

__\--help__|__\-h__ Generate this help (long version).

__\--usage__ Generate this help (short version).

__\--man__ Generate man page.

__\--nroff__ Generate man page in NROFF format.

# DESCRIPTION

compile-latex is a program that compiles a TeX file until it reaches a
fixed point. The program assumes that if all the inputs of a program are
the same, then not repeating this program is acceptable; and if any
input of a program changes, then the program is rerun.

compile-latex also manages makeindex. It supports the use of the
`multind` and `index` packages for multiple indexes; however, the
automatic mode only uses the `.idx` to `.ind` standard index.

compile-latex also manages bibtex and any combination of packages that
use only bibtex as an auxiliary program.

compile-latex remembers from one compilation to another the index
options it was given. It is not necessary to repeat them (not harmful
either).

compile-latex uses strace to determine the files accessed by a program.

# GIVING OPTIONS

Options may come from:

- the command line
- previous invocations (if __\--load-all__ or __\--load-old__ is used)
- the file itself in specially formatted comments (if
__\--load-all__ or __\--load-input__ is used)

Most options are persistent: they will be stored in the hashfile and
remembered on subsequent calls. However, if one category of options is
given in two different sources, the first one takes precedence. For
example, if the command line indicates `--index-file-suffix adx` and
the last invocation was `--index-file-suffix idx`, only one index
ending in `.adx` will be processed (options are not _merged_).

The __\--load-\*__ options can be used to select which sources are
considered. Of course, jobnames cannot be read from the hashfile (they
have to be already known at this point).

Comment lines in the input file formatted as follows: one or more
percent char, zero or more spaces, the string `compile-latex`, one or
more spaces, the string `"option"`, zero or more spaces, the string
`":"` and one option (without any excess spaces), will be considered as
an option. These options will not be stored for later invocations, since
they are in the file anyway.

Another format for in-file options is as follows: one or more percent
char, zero or more spaces, the string `compile-latex`, one or more
spaces, the string `"options"` (remark the plural), zero or more
spaces, the string `":"` and options separated by spaces (spaces at the
end or the beginning will be removed). The options can embed spaces;
they will be quoted (see ["QUOTING"](#quoting)) (thus, do not forget to quote
the other chars if you ever need them).

# QUOTING

Each option expects a single argument. Some may require spaces to
separate various parts (e.g. __\--index-options__). If one part needs
spaces (a filename, for example), use `%20` for the space inside the
part. Use `%25` for a litteral `%` and `%3B` for a `;`. Quoting
should almost never be necessary.

# MAKEFILE

It is difficult to build generic Makefile snippets that satisfy
everyone. The current choice is to build some phony targets: _all_,
_do_, _clean_, _distclean_, _depends_ and _depends-as-is_. _all_,
_do_ and _depends_ will rebuild the targets with the same options that
were used when building the makefile (using __\--load-none__);
_depends-as-is_ will not use __\--load-none__, thus using the currently
selected options. _do_ is phony and will always rebuild all
files. _all_ will rebuild all files that are not up-to-date (it means
older than their dependencies, or not existent). _depends_ will do the
same as _do_, and rebuild the Makefile (and possibly ignore
files). _clean_ and _distclean_ remove the files (except for the main
output with _clean_).

To avoid interacting with other targets in the Makefile, all these
targets can be prefixed by some chosen prefix using
__\--makefile-prefix__.

# DEBUG

Debug level varies from 0 (silent, except for results of __\--depends__ or
like options) to 7 (very verbose).

The default level is 1 and will print all time consuming operations.

Level 2 will print changed files before launching time consuming operations.

Level 3 will print all operations even skipped ones.

Level 5 will print changed checksums.

# EXAMPLES

    compile-latex file.tex

will compile `file.tex` as many times as necessary, processing index
and bibtex files as many times as necessary too (sometimes, bibtex index
have to be processed several times because of cross-references).

    compile-latex file.tex --manual --index-file-suffix adx \
    --index-output-suffix and \
    --index-options '-g -t /tmp/log%20indexation' \
    --index-file-suffix odx --index-output-suffix ond --bibtex

will compile `file.tex` and do some special treatment for auxiliary
programs. First, normal index `file.idx` will not be processed, as well
as support for `bibtex` is removed. However, two index files ending in
`.adx` and `.odx` (coming from the `multind` package for example)
will be processed to `file.and` and the second one to `file.ond`, the
first being indexed with the `makeindex` options `-g` and
`-t /tmp/log indexation` (remark the space in the filename).

# BUGS

Generation of pictures by other programs is not supposed to be done by
`compile-latex`, unless the document uses `write18` to generate the
images (in which case, compile-latex will happily rerun the generation).

Makefile and gitignore options create files not safe to be invoked
outside their own directory. Files with weird names may cause problems
(especially since GNUmake does not support filenames with spaces).

# AUTHOR

Copyright Jean-Christophe Dubacq 2012

# COPYING

This work is licensed under the BSD licence. It is explicitly stated
here that the license does not extend to the data managed by the
  program, in case anyone had doubts.
